I wonder if you could just identify yourselves for my tape, and then that'll help me.
You can just leave it here, it'll be fine.
Okay.
That's good, yeah.
Aoki Erdansson, Director of Noby Library, Swedish Academy, Stockholm.
Excellent, thank you.
And I'm Susanne Borenberg, I'm Systems Librarian at this library too.
Do you have cards that will help me with the spellings of your names?
I don't have a card.
My name is Lisa.
How do you spell your name?
Susanne.
That's S-U-S-A-N-N-E.
Okay.
Oh, thank you, sir.
And B-O.
B as in victory.
No, B as in B. It's in my name.
Okay.
O-R-E-N.
That's right.
And then Berg.
B-E-R-E-N.
Good.
Well, we're in the Nobel Library of the Swedish Academy, and you were saying that your mandate is to, as we read in this prefatory page of this body, is to promote excellence in... How does the library attempt to do that, shall we ask?
Today we tried to cover the literature from the whole world with
which is an impossible mission.
But we tried to.
We have specialists in English language, French language, Spanish, slave, Spanish, slave.
And we have also, for example,
members of the academy specialized in different languages.
We have eminent specialists in the Chinese, senior, senior analog, member of the academy.
But we can't cover, we can't cover.
all languages here.
But it is largely literature, of course.
Yes, yes.
Fiction.
That's fiction.
And poetry as well?
Drama, poetry.
The creative literature.
All literature around the letter.
Okay, and criticism as well?
Yes, yes.
Of course.
And then how many volumes would you... We always said we have more than 200,000 volumes.
And it is
specifically 20th century?
Yes.
The library was created in 1901.
So you really quite literally encompass the 20th century.
Yes.
But we have also the classics.
That's not our task.
We're not the same task mission as the National Library.
So how would you distinguish the two then?
How would you distinguish your mission from theirs?
We had to, we tried to acquire books where there was interest for the academy.
That is to say the literature which is created today.
We buy literature or fiction from now living authors.
And if dead authors, if they come with some new edition, we don't really care.
If it's not a very important or interesting translation.
So to say, if they have Shakespeare in a new edition, it's not necessarily that we buy it.
But if it's a good translation, a new translation, a different translation, and a now living translator, then we might buy it.
So, Pasternak's trans-Russian translation of Shakespeare, which was regarded as excellent, is likely to be in your collection here.
Yeah, but Pasternak is... Pasternak is short, right?
Yes.
That's what I'm saying.
Yes, right.
But I think that's what you're saying.
You would have that because it's Pasternak.
Yes, yes.
But we don't necessarily find new editions of dead authors, so to say.
They have to be.
alive and why and that's this is absolutely fascinating to me why is the living author of primary interest if you think of our history this is an institute one of the reasons we we are an institute for the swedish academy to to nominee the nominate the prize winner of the nobel prize and the authors of the nobel prize they have to be living it has to be living authors right
You can't get the price when you're dead.
Has it ever happened that somebody who has been seriously considered died, you know?
Well, they die all the time.
They die all the time, aren't they?
But I guess that immediately takes them out of the running, so to speak.
It is.
Not necessarily, but I mean, that's our main... It is to recognize excellence
by living writers excellence in literature in literature by living and the academy distributed about 50 prizes not only the great prize there are other prizes in poetry Swedish poets drama teachers and so on translators about 50
Every year.
Explain to me why prizes are important.
Does it validate the work or does the work validate itself?
The Swedish Academy has two missions.
One, the Swedish language.
The other is the Swedish literature.
And that's why.
Now, when you talk about collecting 20th century literature, and as you already acknowledged, it's an impossible task to cover the whole world.
Yeah.
So how do you separate the wheat from the chaff, as we say?
Now we are talking about the noble processes.
Sure.
Yes.
In a week, we send off 600 letters for the next year.
to foreign academies, recognized by the Swedish Academy, lawyers in literature, who are an ally, and presidents of pen clubs, presidents of pen clubs in the whole world, professors,
in language and literature all over the world.
And in return, they propose a candidate.
And at the end of January, it's finished.
At the end of January.
January.
And after that, there is a committee, the Nobel Committee.
Five members of the Swedish Academy
who look, discuss all these candidates in collaboration with Swedish Academy, the other members.
And at the end of May, there is a short list.
Only five candidates.
And that is not publicized?
No, no, no, no.
Never.
But it certainly does arouse intense speculation.
Yes.
And while first in October, while first in October, the academy, the department secretary, made the announcement.
And as it happened was yesterday.
Yes.
There's always intense anxiety and enthusiasm.
I'm sure that there are certain groups that have favorites.
Yes, very often.
But I think it is a real special.
Because Daryl Froeh will know that everybody
Everybody who is occupied with theatre literature knows Dario Faux.
Which was not the case with Szymborska or Szymseni.
So this was a very popular selection, you would say?
I think, yes, in a double sense.
Popular.
And how is that greeted by the people of Sweden, by the way?
I think the reaction was very favorable.
And in general, because this is my first visit to this beautiful country, because I'm also interested in this whole concept of book culture, is this something that the people take a great deal of interest in, what you say?
Yes, in the Nobel Prize of Literature, yes.
I think it's more spectacular than that.
the price in physics or chemistry.
More so?
Yeah, more.
Because this is a country... Because everybody can, in some way or another, understand the price.
In chemistry, in physics, it's very difficult for everybody to...
know what it's about.
You can read the book.
You can understand an equation that may find a cure for age.
And often and always there is only one person in literature.
In physics there are many
professors there are institutes medicine but also people read books yeah and is is sweden the country of the book in your view i i think it's rather finland yes all right yeah i'm sorry all right iceland finland and iceland in the nautica countries i
I know that in Finland they read more than in Sweden.
Why do you think that is?
Tradition.
I don't know.
Well, you see, we're concerned.
People ask me if I'm writing about the demise of the book as an object.
What do I know?
But I am certainly going to libraries.
I was just in Leipzig with her.
They lead the world in the preservation of books on a mass scale.
I'm interested in that, but I'm also interested in digital books and standard books.
But what really concerns me is not so much the book as the object, because I do believe how I'll survive, is the people reading.
And in my country, unfortunately, we have too many things that compete with books, and you really don't find... I was flying to Texas, to San Francisco through Texas, and there was a man sitting next to me reading Cicero.
And I was so stunned.
And I said, excuse me, sir, if you don't mind, are you reading this for business or for pleasure?
I thought he was a professor.
He said, for pleasure.
And I wrote it down.
I mean, I was so amazed to see somebody reading a classic work in public.
How often do you see that?
But I think there are traditions in history in Sweden that make people a real people.
We've got these traditions of public libraries
What do you call it?
Folketskolen.
Yeah, Folketskolen.
What do you call it?
Education for grown-ups.
Adult education.
That's built around reading, reading books.
That's very important.
If you read books, you get to learn things and then you can pull back out, you see.
have an impact on your life and on your surroundings.
I think that's a tradition we've got.
To go back just a bit, when you get these nominations, and I won't take up too much of your tenure.
Excuse me.
No, that's fine.
Really, this is a treat for me.
It's very useful.
Trust me, you'll see very good results out of this.
You mentioned that the 600 or so people you request to
make suggestions and nominations.
Do you then acquire the books of all these authors?
Not all, not all.
But what's the process at that point?
Yes, yes.
The candidates are very, they are very important for us.
We, in general, we have their books here.
So you already do?
Yes, yes.
That's one source of our, of our acquisition.
But there are other sources.
For example, reviews, magazines.
I think we have a good choice of magazines, literature magazines.
So you have a staff that is constantly reading reviews and criticism around the world and basically saying, oh, this looks like an important writer.
Oh, it's got that book.
Does that handle what happens?
and also the candidates proposed by those who are authorized to propose and the members of the academy and authors and translators there are quite a few people and here we have also about 50 or 100 scholars who come here and
everything is freer.
But we ask them to propose interesting writers in their field.
And how many books a year would you estimate you acquire?
Not very much.
About 3,000.
So it is very exclusive.
The best of the best.
So you really are not attempting in any way to be
a comprehensive collection.
No.
But an exclusive.
Yes, very, very exclusive.
But one that is also not necessarily comprehensive in terms of titles, but it covers the world.
We do... We try to.
We try to.
And how many nations, would you say, have literature that's represented in your collection?
I'm asking some silly questions.
Probably as many nations as there are in that.
Well, when the library was built up for almost 100 years, it was said to cover 33 languages.
33.
Enumerated.
But today I think we cover about double.
Not cover, but we try to.
How many...
nations have received Nobel Prizes in Literature, I wonder.
Do you know?
No.
I can figure it out.
I'll give you a list of them.
I have a list, by the way, of winners.
You have a list of laureates.
Excellent.
I won't take up too much of your time I think I think it's easier for you to grasp to understand what we do here when you are going around you find a very very concrete way you talk about the whole concept of folk culture
I think that we are really sitting at the seat of what could be described as the epitome of folk culture.
I think you have been interested in Borges, I think.
Of course.
And everybody asks, why didn't he, why didn't he got the prize?
Good question.
Do you have anything?
I can, no.
You see, our archives are secret for 50 years here.
But you can, you can,
guess the candidates by looking in our catalogue.
And if you look at the name of Borges in our catalogue, you'll find something.
I'd like to do that.
I'd be interested in Kazantzakis
So United is playing the record.
Two.
Take two.
Go back.
So the records are made public after 50 years.
They're not made public, but they're no longer... Yes, for scholars.
They're released for examination.
You see, one to six of... 103.
There are 103 records, right?
So what does that indicate?
That's... It's up to you to interpret that.
But this is more than books.
This means that these are... So there are 103...
Is this a catalogue of your records?
Here in our library, yes.
Of the archives?
No.
Books in the library.
Books in the library, a book of Borges.
So that there are so many indicates that he has been.
He has been.
How about Nikos Kazantzakis?
I know when Camus won the prize.
He said K-A-Z.
Can I type it?
Yes.
52 items.
So Kazanzaki's generated 52 items.
Would you consider that a lot?
Yes.
These are the different languages that it's in.
So it's in Spanish, it's in English, it's in German, it's in Greek.
Yes.
If the member of the Academy can't read the language in question, we have a translation.
English, French, German, Spanish.
You see our friend Kazinzakis had 52.
52 entries, which I think is considerable, right?
Can I try one more?
He's Greek, yes.
97, so he was there.
And this also indicates the years that, that doesn't really indicate the years that he might have been discussed, just the years
Okay, so that's Graham Greene is 97, Kazantzakis.
Yeah, why not?
Oh, I have another.
Can I try another?
The interpretation is yours.
I'm not making any interpretation at all.
How do I go back to search again?
Search, okay, so I'm going to do... No toaster, because you don't spell it really.
Ah, try it again.
How do I do this now?
Okay.
okay yes t-o-l-s-t-o-y maybe like that you think just three
It's not complete.
So now you've been counting and then I'm telling you it's not complete.
Okay, that's important.
The academy was very interesting at the beginning.
But this is also the very beginning.
So I would imagine you're entering material in the database going back.
At the time, Tulsa was not an ideal writer from now.
This is one of those cases where, of course, a writer's reputation and stature becomes greater in death.
Perhaps.
but the adaptation of the idea has changed too, today.
That's right.
But when you think of your mission, it's as you stated earlier, you're dealing with living ways.
So maybe in this case, history as a judge, you're not... No, when the president was given to the unknown poet, Syl Prudhomme,
the French.
All Swedish writers and foreign writers protested because they said there are Steinberg, Nibsson and Tolstoy.
Steinberg and Nibsson didn't get Nobels either?
No.
I have to check one of them out too.
Ibsen, he wasn't an ideal writer.
Alright, so how do I do this now?
Lane.
Okay, so I'm going to look up Ibsen.
No, no, you take, you go back.
You take five.
Five.
Oh, I see, okay.
That's 15.
We have the classics.
So I go, just Ibsen, right?
Ibsen, yes.
I don't need his first initial, do you think?
No.
I wouldn't think so.
And 110.
You see him?
That's fascinating.
I think I may as well get Strindberg while I'm at it because Strindberg worked at the library over there.
B-E-R-G, right?
Or is it B-U-R-G?
Is it B-E-R-G or B-U?
Five hundred and eleven.
It's the French would say.
Okay, that's... Indeed.
But if I were to look up somebody like John Updike, I wouldn't see anything, right?
I'm sure.
Oh, but I thought you said 50 years.
Okay.
It's pretty interesting, isn't it?
And these are titles of books that are in here.
And then how do I go back again?
You want to go back?
Yeah, I want to see another one.
Okay.
Oh, Mr. Updike couldn't be pleased to know that.
Joyce Carol Oates is 39 more than he does.
Oh, I've got to try.
This is exciting.
One mother.
Contemporary of Updikes.
Of course, he hasn't written as much.
33, though, is very interesting.
Very, very, very interesting.
Don't ask God.
Here's one.
49, good for Tennessee.
I love Tennessee Williams.
I could do this forever, but that's enough.
Okay.
You can hear that Borges was not alone to the Swedish Academy.
To have a...
Oh, I would love it.
That looks like it's English right there.
And this was yesterday.
Wow.
That's so exciting.
Where is that announcement made?
Usher.
Thank you.
Yes, and who is that?
Homer.
Oh, that's Homer.
One of my ancestors.
I'm Greek-American.
Here's the manuals on modern literature.
Greek, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian.
On his side, bibliographies.
And this room is the reading room where your members, is this where the deliberations are made in this room?
Not only for the members.
There are two rooms for the study.
That room and here, the reading room.
The other rooms are for the staff and for the speech academy.
But where are the winners selected?
Okay, thank you.
I think it depends on people are working on their work.
But we'll do it.
And we come to this table with the latest acquisitions.
Like that, they can see what we have acquired.
I say acquired because we get free copies.
I'm sure.
Are they necessarily entered into the collection?
I'm sure you still screen the books that otherwise you'd have an unmanageable collection.
No, they know very well what books we are interested in.
I see.
Excellent.
Thank you.
And I see, for instance, from A, African-America, African literature today, Australian, Canadian literature.
And German.
And then, of course, contemporary literature.
That's a big... Criticism.
There's Danish literary magazines, books from England, modern poetry and translation, et cetera, et cetera.
French.
And then here we've got... I mean, these are international, too.
Do you know that?
That's right.
And then we've got...
That's not funny.
That's okay.
That's fine.
Yes.
I understand what you're showing me.
Yes, yes.
We've got quite a few magazines.
What was that?
You just, Q-U-I-M-E-R-A, and that is what... Yes, right.
Spanish, I hope it's Spanish.
Partisan review, of course, which is an important text.
And then worship.
Of course.
So this time it's Italian.
The new Russian.
Can I just leave this cane someplace so I can take some notes?
Yes.
Okay.
In fact, I'll leave these papers someplace.
That way I can take notes.
The New York Times book review.
Food to a grass.
What does that headline say?
German poets.
But I mean... Did he die?
No.
It's just a story about him.
Okay.
I was concerned that it might be a little bit you already.
Did I make something?
Then again, a bit of the lower record numbers, volume?
Yes.
Of the magazine.
It starts here.
The staff that drew it.
then there's no, we want this, we don't want this.
That's a very important thing.
Make this quickly, ask for this, okay?
And make it as quick as you want, really.
This is... I'm fine, I'm fine.
No, no, it's not because of that.
It's just, I realized that this was not scheduled, so... What I wanted to tell you is that we divide books
by language, which means English-speaking English, which means these books are books from Australia, from some parts of Africa, English.
But if they're in English, this is where they're going to be.
Even if the author is Indian,
But it wasn't English in general.
Exactly, right, exactly.
Somebody like Naipaul, for instance.
Yes, right.
Or Rushdie, perhaps, even.
Yes, yes.
But he's English now, I think.
But I understand precisely what you mean.
Nabokov, for instance, in his time later,
How would you do Nabokov, who wrote in Russian and in English?
Where he started, just like Beckett.
I think he's in, we have him in French, because he mostly wrote in French.
Beckett, yes.
So we put it in French.
I want to look up Nabokov, by the way.
Well, I don't know, but how much he did so much writing in, you know, when he lived in America, in English.
I mean, he's considered an American writer in some... Yes, in America.
Well, he considered himself.
Yes, but like in socialism, I think probably in Russian.
Of course, but he never got American citizenship either.
We looked up now, but then we make a mark in the catalogue that this author is from India.
It looks that we've got all these English authors, but that's because we've got also the Canadian, the Australian, the English.
Do you mind if I take a photograph of this?
Just, and again, it's for visual purposes and nothing else.
Not for reproduction, but just the things you're describing to me are very, you know, a lot easier for me to... To remember.
To remember when I had a picture of it.
And on top of that's done.
Uh-huh.
And that's difficult, too, because you were not only...
That's right.
Well, then you have some Canadians who write in French.
So it's by language.
But when the award is given, it's by nationality, right?
By nation?
It's given by author.
It's given to the author.
So that's a misconception that a nation wins an award?
Yeah.
But even though there is balance,
I think you could almost bet that there will not be an Italian winner next year.
Probably.
But still, you give the price to the author, and that's the kind way over.
It's the author.
I mean, I'm not asking you to discuss Graham Greene, because that's history, but I do remember when they gave William Golding the award, they said, well, that should pretty much take care of the Greene question.
But I mean, they all respect him.
They do, but that's part of the fun of it.
That's part of the fun.
How long have you worked here?
Since 1913.
I don't remember when you were.
That's before your watch, as we used to say in the Navy.
That was not on your watch.
Oh, right.
And then, of course, we've got the business center.
I'm going to turn it out here.
All this business liquor.
History of literature.
Oh, this is exciting.
I'll put away that.
No, no, that's fine.
It's part of the ambiance.
You know, I like to see things in situ, as they say, you know.
That's fine.
Again, this is not for... That's the end of it.
So that'll be the last picture.
Oh, well.
But this is the history of literature, and then we start with Swedish literature, and then it's Swedish literature, and then it's history of English literature.
And it's on fifth floor, as well as the Swedish, English, and French fiction, and the history of French literature, it's on fifth floor.
And there's a reason for it.
That's what's mostly used.
That's what we have to get.
uh the more that's what they usually or most often order for people coming here so we keep them on this floor it's a very pragmatic approach it's a good approach you have to use something for all this
And this.
And it's too late.
But you know what?
I don't think it would come out too good anyway.
And I'm sure we can get photographs of this.
Oh my.
Just tell me, describe for me where we are.
And what time yesterday was the announcement made?
It's 12.20, so almost 24 hours.
24 hours ago at this time, I'm sure that people were beginning to assemble in here.
Who does?
Yes.
And television cameras and everything.
Quite a few people.
Often it's, you know, you can hardly open the door.
Yeah.
And are you here when that happens?
Yes, it's fun.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Of course, yeah.
And was it a surprise to you up until the minute it was announced?
Yes, it's always a surprise.
We don't just remember.
So do you have guesses amongst yourselves?
It doesn't.
Oh, come on!
You're not supposed to know.
Then you choose not to know, right?
Then you can wonder and be curious.
But in a way, you kind of, you know.
Do you read a lot of these authors yourself?
Sometimes.
So do you have a personal favorite that you'd like to see?
for either sentimental reasons or literary reasons?
No, I don't think so.
Because you forced yourself not to, it's important.
I don't know.
I know, I know.
This is really wonderful.
This is exciting.
This is also the room where the laureate, the Nobel Prize winner, holds his Nobel speech.
That's often in the seventh or eighth of December.
Of every Nobel laureate or just the literary one?
The literary one.
Literary one.
Okay.
The literary laureate.
And that will be in December.
It will be in December.
So they got like a weed that's very hectic.
So is today kind of anti-climactic?
Is it quiet now?
The papers were wonderful.
It's great.
Oh, that'd be good.
And that'll be pretty much it, by the way.
You know, after that, I don't... You want to see another picture?
That's the third.
He was the founder of the Jewish Academy.
You have to remember that.
Gustav III, a statue of him behind podium, founder SA.
Thank you.
And this is... 18 chairs.
There is a beautiful box.
Can you describe the style of furniture, or does it— In English?
Yeah.
No, there's— This is an ornish— The house was in 1751.
1751.
I would say blue is the predominant color.
Blue, gray, and green.
Gorgeous chandelier.
Gold.
would you call them decorations on the wall?
So there are two, four, six, there are twelve, fourteen, but there are fourteen at the table and then four around it.
It's very seldom that all the members are here at the same time.
And this is where the decisions are made?
Yes.
Or maybe, what do I know?
Because we're supposed to prepare.
That's right.
And again, this is just for the literary award.
Yes, correct.
The other Nobels are done elsewhere by other people.
It's the Royal Science Society.
And that's today, I guess.
That's right.
Okay.
I'll wait here for you if that's okay.
But do you do your does your board to make me you don't know this but do they read the material and it's in their original languages or?
They do too.
That's very important.
When they select a laureate they try to read it in as much as possible in as many translated
as possible.
They don't read it in Swedish or just in English.
They try to read it in French, in German, in English, and if possible, in like Italian or Dutch or Russian or whatever.
This is, again, history of literature.
And this is Yiddish.
You wouldn't believe that, would you?
No.
And that's African.
What is Yiddish?
Yiddish.
Yeah, but Singer won a Nobel.
Yes, right.
And he wrote only in Yiddish.
We got it as a special.
Probably because of him, isn't it?
They knew what they did when he was elected, too.
No, he was wonderful.
That's Romanian.
That's African.
That's Macedonian.
Macedonian.
That's the Jitsi.
Their language.
And the Spanish, of course.
The Slovenian, Slovakian.
We also got, like, Icelandic and , I don't know how you call it.
What's that?
Not the fairy islands.
Which one, though?
Which one?
The islands outside Iceland, between Iceland and Greenland, kind of.
It's a small world of islands.
You know where they are, but you don't know the name.
I don't know the name in English.
It's in there.
Oh, the Faroe Islands, sure.
Yes, right?
No, you know what I'm saying.
And of course this is German, German, German, and again German.
And then you all got it.
Are you in a hurry?
No, no, no.
I'm just checking.
It'll have to be 2 o'clock at the National.
I got plenty of time.
That's Greek and that's Arabic, Armenian.
I just want to show you, to show that we try to collect, we really try to collect pictures from all different parts of the world.
as much as possible, because it's not that easy to know what they write in Tibet, so to say.
You don't read Tibetan, and you don't get to know it, right?
And we don't know anybody living in Tibet who can tell us that these are good workers.
Do you have any Tibetan here?
Yes, we've got Tibet.
But I mean, of course, that's difficult.
That's difficult, but still we try.
As much as possible.
But you have it right there.
But we have it.
Yes.
But again, it indicates... But we try.
It's Mongolian.
That's Tibetan.
That's one book.
One book.
But still it's a book, right?
Is it in Tibetan?
No, it's not in Tibetan.
This is the translation.
What's the title?
This is the book.
Le Lama au Sainte.
That's a brother I love, I think.
But that's, still, Ramon.
That's a novel, right?
Right.
Who's the author?
Yondon, the Lama Yondon.
And that's the translator.
They made a film about it for a few years ago.
Oh, sure.
Yep.
What about Osan?
It's five.
I want to...
I just wanted to show you that... We try our best, what do you do?
But I mean, there's no use in buying books in Vietnamese.
We try to find translations.
We try to use the, what do you call it, European alphabet?
With one exception, that's the Cyrillic alphabet.
So if it's a book in Thai, so to say, we don't buy it in Thai, because nobody can read it.
It's all acrylic, but how about Greek?
That's close.
Sometimes.
Because you have three Greek winners.
Yes, some people.
Yes, but just... That's a massive question.
Yes, yes, yes.
No, but I'll answer.
Because nobody's reading Thai, right?
So what's the use of having a book in Thai?
So then we try to find it in translations.
But if we have a Nobel Prize winner, like, or like...
Then we try to get all his books, even in his original language.
Was it Elitis or Cavati?
Elitis.
Yeah, Elitis.
Cavati is the other Greek.
Yes, right.
That's what we're doing.
As long as they don't get the price, we try to get it in.
the European alphabet, but if they get, then we try to get all of their books in the original language, too.
So we got only on Japanese.
I interviewed him, by the way, from my, I did an interview of Kenzie Bordewin.
Actually, I interviewed a half a dozen Nobel laureates.
Are they happy with our money?
You know, I never ask.
So in Russian, we got quite a few books in Russian.
But this is no use.
It's just Italian.
Well, did we see Nabokov, or do you think he's going to be in... Let me just be clear now.
You aren't getting them in the... One exception, Russian.
Okay.
So they do depend on translation, then, don't they?
Yes, but they can't read Chinese.
Right?
Right.
You can't expect them to read all the languages.
Yes, so they're dependent.
So there are filters that the works have to pass through, is what I'm saying.
Yes, of course.
I mean, they're human beings, right?
I'm just saying, just to consider it as an interesting one.
Yes, right, yes.
Because I've interviewed translators, like Robert Bagels, who did make masters.
Try to read as many translations as possible.
to get a balanced view.
Yes, right.
They try to read a translation in English, in French, and in German.
Because, of course, they are aware of the fact that a translation is changing, that's a word.
Okay, that's very important.
That's very important.
Yes, it sure is.
And, of course, they try to, if they know the language, they try to read.
There are quite a few languages in the world.
That's something to be proud of, too.
We don't all want to speak English.
That's fine.
I have a sixteen-year-old daughter who does all the translations from German and French for me.
Yeah, that's nice.
And over there.
I don't know why I missed it.
This is Nabokov, and this is all in English.
Oh, this is English, McGraw Hill, New Direction.
Yes, but here, that's in Russian.
That's in Russian.
So we have him... Nabokov, Nabokov, Nabokov, Nabokov, Nabokov.
And here he is actually in Triloch.
Yes.
And, uh, so you have him in both, is the answer to what we were saying.
Yes, yes.
We had that from the very beginning, because it was... And then we had him in English.
You can have a look here.
We got him in English, we got him in French,
Okay.
And we got him in Swedish.
Probably got a few in German, too.
So, you know, yeah.
But that's normal, especially the rest.